I've talked a lot about this one scripts.
Let's actually go write it.
So I'm gonna switch back into Unity here.
And there's a couple of different ways
that you can create scripts in Unity.
For example, if I have this player
game objects selected, oops.
And then I scroll down
here to Add Component.
I could type in this script,
we called it rolling movement.
And there is no rolling movement script
found so we could hit new script there.
If I do hit new scripts It's going
to create that in the assets folder.
So we could create it.
It would get created in the assets folder
and get attached to the player game
object, and then we'd have to move
the script to where we want it.
The way that I prefer to work is I
like to create scripts inside of
my project window.
So I'm going to go to
the Scripts folder here.
And if I right click in
any of this blank space,
I can go to the Create Menu and
I can choose C-Sharp script.
So, again, I want to call
this script rolling movement.
And when I hit Enter,
it's going to create the script.
And it's going to reload the domain
that's sort of the magical
compilation process that allows
us to just hit the play button.
And in the inspector, you'll see a preview
of the script and it's actually added
a lot of stuff in there by default, some
of it is useful and we'll keep some of it.
Some of it is stuff we don't want.
So now I need to go to
the player game objects.
And we need to add that script as
a component, so I can do that a couple
of different ways I can click and
drag this rolling movement script.
I could drag it to the player in
the hierarchy, I could drag it onto
the sphere in the The scene view or
I can drag it over to the inspector.
So if I drag and
drop over to the inspector,
it will add this rolling
movement script as a component.
It's not going to do anything right now
because there's nothing in the script.
But if I double click on the script
from the project window or
you could also click on it from.
From the inspector,
it will open up in whatever default
editor you have chosen,
in this case I'm using VS code.
Many installations of Unity will
have visual studio installed,
and there really isn't a right or
wrong answer here,
you can use pretty much
any IDE that you want.
Yes.
>> Is there a good IntelliSense support or
an extension for Unity for VS code?
>> Yes.
And I believe that comes installed
with the Unity If I might
have to get back to that one and
dig into that a little further,
but yeah, unities installation
processes pretty good.
I think a lot of that stuff
often comes installed already.
>> Is it better to use fixed update
instead of multiplying by delta time and
the update method?
>> I mean you can multiply by
delta time to get consistent,
while somewhat consistent updates but
they are going to be
frame rate independent.
And the other thing that's gonna
happen is those physics calculations
are going to happen every
time a frame is rendered.
Which could potentially impact
performance especially for
doing very complicated
physics calculations.
So keeping them in fixed update,
even though multiplying by delta time and
update might allow you to keep
it smooth and consistent.
Keeping it in fixed update allows
you to keep the CPU load consistent.
There any other questions?
No all right cool.
So I've opened this rolling movement
script It comes with a couple
of things we need ,a couple
things we don't need.
You'll notice up at the top,
there's a few additional namespaces
System.Collection part of or,
excuse me, System.Collections.
And System.Collections.Generic
are both part of C# And
.net and we don't actually need those.
We just need the Unity engine name space,
because we are not going to use
any collections in this game.
That's things like rays, lists and
other C-Sharp niceties that
allow you to work with
things like linked lists,
but we don't need those.
So we just need the Unity engine,
namespace leaving the other namespaces
that you're not using as harmless
they'll get stripped but for
the sake of simplicity,
we'll remove those.
We do need the start method.
The update method,
we actually wanna change to Fixed Update.
And again That's pretty important here.
We don't wanna update every frame, we
wanna update every fixed physics update.
And then there's also a couple of
comments that a Unity script includes.
I like to just delete those so
that I can write my own comments.
So the first thing that we're gonna
do inside of this class is we're
going to write out those variables.
And the first one is
the speed variable and
it has an attribute of serialized
field and Then that is a float.
I call it m_speed and
I set the value to one with an F
there because it's a floating point value,
and
we're gonna end that
line with a semicolon.
Next we need to keep track of the rigid
body component that is on this same
game object to which our rolling
movement component is attached.
So we're going to create a variable
just to hold on to that rigid body.
We need to add a hide and inspector
attribute to this public vector three and
we're going to call this
movement Direction.
And we're actually gonna write another
component that's gonna derive that
vector three later on, and
that's why we need it to be public.
We need it to be accessible
by other scripts.
And then finally,
we're going to add a vector
three which is going to be
called m_startPosition.
And just really briefly,
a vector3 is a three dimensional
vector with an x, y, and z.
And that just stores internally a struct
with three floating point values.
And you know a vector does typically
have a position and a magnitude.
In this case, a vector three
can represent one or the other.
So it can represent a position or
a magnitude.
In this case we are going to
use that as kind of both.
We're gonna use that as well.
We're gonna use it as
a direction in this case, and
then we'll multiply that whole
vector by this speed variable.
So in our start method,
the first thing we need to do and
I'll just write a comment
here by adding two slashes.
Is we need to gather components,
variables that will be needed later, and
what are those well we have a variable for
our rigid body.
But we need to actually
grab that rigid body off
of the game object that this
same component is attached to.
So we'll use the rigid body variable.
And we're going to assign it using this
special method here called get component.
And get component takes a generic type.
So in these angle brackets here,
I'm going to type rigid body okay?
And then right after the angle brackets,
I'll type an opening and
closing parenthesis because it is
a method It's a GetComponent method.
But we're using rigid
body as a generic type
to assign it to our rigid
body variable okay?
And then finally,
we need the starting position here.
So we'll use the start
position vector three.
And that's going to represent
a position versus To say this vector
three which is a direction right and
there's a couple of components
that are accessible without
having to use that get compass.
Component method and
one of them is transformed because
every game object has a transform.
This is a mono behavior,
it's a component that's going
to be attached to a game object.
So we know that there's
gonna be a transform.
So we want lowercase transform with a
lowercase t here Or rather than uppercase.
Uppercase is going to be the actual
transform class where we might
access static methods without
a transform that's instantiated.
We want the transform that's
attached to this game object.
So we're going to keep it lowercase.
So we're gonna say transform.position,
which is one of its properties.
Because remember in the inspector, we saw
a transform has a position, rotation,
and scale.
So we want its position.
The reason we're storing
the start position here is because
we're gonna need that when we reset.
So you remember how the spheres
were kind of falling off the side.
It or when we start the game or
when the game ends and
you want to restart the game we need that
original position to reset the sphere so
that's why we're storing it and
start because we'll use the steam start.
Position later before
the game has actually begun.
So, oops, there we go.
okay, next, inside of fixed update,
we just need to do one thing here for now.
We need to apply that movement direction
as a force To the rigid body and
I'm going to type that out as a comment.
So we remember what we're doing here.
So every physics tick or
physics update, out of force
equal to the movement vector
multiplied by speed good okay.
So, on the rigid body class,
there's a method called add force okay?
And add force along with many methods
in the Unity API is overloaded methods.
So if I type add force
the parentheses here.
It will show me in VS code or
Visual Studio,
the several different overloads that I
could potentially apply there, right?
But I actually want the second one.
And you don't need to scroll
through these to actually select
which overloaded method you want.
You can just type in variables, it's
going to know which one that you mean.
But I want the second one here I want to
add a force as a vector to the rigid body,
so I'm pointing in
a direction Of this vector,
it's gonna push it in that direction.
So we want to use our movementDirection,
And then we want to multiply that vector,
by our float value of speed.
Because we have a direction that
direction is going to be coming from.
In the case of the player, the keyboard
when I'm hitting the WASD keys that's
going to be moving that vector around.
And then the speed gives that a magnitude.
So it increases the length of that factor.
So the last method that we're gonna write
here is going to be called reset position.
And this is going to be a public method.
I left off accessors here because these
methods can be private by default, but
we actually need a public method.
For resetting the position here,
because this is one of several methods
that's going to be called when you say
hit the spacebar to reset the game or
when a player rolls off the side
we need to reset its position.
So we're gonna do a couple things in here,
but
I'll type out a comment to indicate kind
of the general gist of what that is.
We're gonna reset the velocity to 0 and
set the position back to start.
So I'm gonna type this out first and
then explain it.
So first,
on the rigid body We are going to
set velocity = vector3.zero, so.
the vector three class has a stat
Attic property called zero and
that allows you to just assign
a vector with a value of zero for
all of its values.
So we're set.
So a rigid body internally
is storing a velocity.
It's how fast the rigid body is moving.
We wanna set that to zero so
it's not moving then A rigidbody
dot angular velocity,
so it's not only moving it's also
potentially tumbling through space.
We want to set that to vector 3.0 as well.
We don't want any angular velocity.
And then finally,
the transform dot position
Now we want to set to the start position.
So you'll kind of notice that we've
mirrored what we've done in start.
And start we're taking the start
position vector three variable and
assigning the transforms current
position at the start of
the script when it first starts rendering.
Down here we're doing the opposite.
We want to assign that start position
that we stored to the transform
circles back to its original position.
So that's the kind of
the naive approach right?
You reset the start position.
When people are starting out in Unity,
they'll do this type of thing where they
have a physics game,
they'll reset a position.
And what ends up happening is
they'll reset a position but
then the rigid body will continue moving.
And that's because it still has
the same velocity as it did when it
was in another position in space.
Is it's kind of like in the game portal.
When you go through a portal,
you maintain that velocity,
they kind of use that to their
advantage in that game, right?
In this case, we don't want that when,
when the sphere start above the board,
we want them to have velocity and
angular velocity of zero so that they
just use gravity and drop in right?
So that's why we're resetting
the rigid body there.
okay, so we wrote the script,
I'm going to hit Command S to save it.
And when I switch back to Unity,
you should see a very brief
little loading bar again.
It's magically recompiling
our game on the fly.
With it selected you'll see in
the inspector all the stuff we just wrote.
And the game should at this point if
we hit play the player should drop in.
And if we hit the input keys,
it will do nothing.
Let's because we aren't actually doing
anything with that movement vector
just yet.
We need to write another script
that's going to drive that vector.
But I can hit play again
to come out of play mode.
And if I hit play once more
You'll see that rigid body
does have gravity it's dropping in but
there's still more that we need to do